# Get Started

## Reading Image: `imread`

``` python
retval = cv2.imread( filename[, flags] )
```

`retval`: Is the image if it is successfully loaded. Otherwise it is `None`. This may happen if the filename is wrong or the file is corrupt.

The function has **1 required input argument** and one optional flag:

1. `filename`: This can be an **absolute** or **relative** path. This is a **mandatory argument**.

2. `Flags`:    These flags are used to read an image in a particular format (for example, grayscale/color/with alpha channel). This is an **optional argument** with a default value of `cv2.IMREAD_COLOR` or `1` which loads the image as a color image.

Before we proceed with some examples, let's also have a look at some of the `flags` available.

**Flags**

1. **`cv2.IMREAD_GRAYSCALE`** or **`0`**: Loads image in grayscale mode
2. **`cv2.IMREAD_COLOR`** or **`1`**: Loads a color image. Any transparency of image will be neglected. It is the default flag.
3. **`cv2.IMREAD_UNCHANGED`** or **`-1`**: Loads image as such including alpha channel.

## Displaying Image

### Display using `matplotlib`

``` python
plt.imshow(img)
```

**Note:** by default, the image read from opencv `imread` is in BGR, but the matplotlib channels are in RGB. To reverse color channels:

``` python
img_channels_reversed = img[:, :, ::-1]
plt.imshow(img_channels_reversed)
```

### Display using `opencv`

``` python
cv2.namedWindow("Display", cv2.WINDOW_AUTOSIZE)
cv2.imshow(img)
waitKey(0)
cv2.destroyAllWindows()
```

## Splitting and Merging Color Channels

### Splitting Color Channels

``` python
img_bgr = cv2.imread("image.jpg", cv2.IMREAD_COLOR)
b, g, r = cv2.split(img_bgr)
```

### Merge Color Channels

``` python
imgMerged = cv2.merge((b, g, r))
```

### Convert Color Spaces: `cvtColor`

**`cv2.cvtColor()`** Converts an image from one color space to another. The function converts an input image from one color space to another. In case of a transformation to-from RGB color space, the order of the channels should be specified explicitly (RGB or BGR). Note that the default color format in OpenCV is often referred to as RGB but it is actually BGR (the bytes are reversed). So the first byte in a standard (24-bit) color image will be an 8-bit Blue component, the second byte will be Green, and the third byte will be Red. The fourth, fifth, and sixth bytes would then be the second pixel (Blue, then Green, then Red), and so on.

``` python
dst = cv2.cvtColor( src, code )
```

`dst`: Is the output image of the same size and depth as `src`.

The function has **2 required arguments**:

1. `src` input image: 8-bit unsigned, 16-bit unsigned ( CV_16UC... ), or single-precision floating-point.

2. `code` color space conversion code (see ColorConversionCodes).

Documentation:

1. **`cv2.cvtColor`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/3.4/d8/d01/group__imgproc__color__conversions.html#ga397ae87e1288a81d2363b61574eb8cab)

2. **`ColorConversionCodes`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d8/d01/group__imgproc__color__conversions.html#ga4e0972be5de079fed4e3a10e24ef5ef0)

``` python3
# OpenCV stores color channels in a different order than most other applications (BGR vs RGB).
img_rgb = cv2.cvtColor(img_bgr, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
plt.imshow(img_rgb)

# Converts to HSV
img_hsv = cv2.cvtColor(img_bgr, cv2.COLOR_BGR2HSV)
# Split the image into the B,G,R components
h,s,v = cv2.split(img_hsv)
```

## Saving Images

Saving the image is as trivial as reading an image in OpenCV. We use the function **`cv2.imwrite()`** with two arguments. The first one is the filename, second argument is the image object.

The function `imwrite` saves the image to the specified file. The image format is chosen based on the filename extension (see cv::imread for the list of extensions). In general, only 8-bit single-channel or 3-channel (with 'BGR' channel order) images can be saved using this function (see the OpenCV documentation for further details).

``` python
cv2.imwrite( filename, img[, params] )
```

The function has **2 required arguments**:

1. `filename`: This can be an **absolute** or **relative** path.

2. `img`: Image or Images to be saved.

OpenCV Documentation

1. **`Imwrite`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d4/da8/group__imgcodecs.html#gabbc7ef1aa2edfaa87772f1202d67e0ce)

2. **`ImwriteFlags`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d8/d6a/group__imgcodecs__flags.html#ga292d81be8d76901bff7988d18d2b42ac)


