# Basic Image Manipulations

## Accessing Individual Pickles

``` python
img = cv2.imread("img.png")
img[x][y] = 255
```

## Cropping Images

Cropping an image is simply achieved by selecting a specific (pixel) region of the image.

``` python
cropped_region = img_[200:400, 300:600]
```

## Resizing Images

The function **`resize`** resizes the image `src` down to or up to the specified size. The size and type are derived from the `src`,`dsize`,`fx`, and `fy`.

``` python
dst = resize( src, dsize[, dst[, fx[, fy[, interpolation]]]] )
```

`dst`: output image; it has the size dsize (when it is non-zero) or the size computed from src.size(), fx, and fy; the type of dst is the same as of src.

The function has **2 required arguments**:

1. `src`: input image

2. `dsize`: output image size

Optional arguments that are often used include:

1. `fx`: Scale factor along the horizontal axis; when it equals 0, it is computed as (ğšğš˜ğšğš‹ğš•ğš)ğšğšœğš’ğš£ğš.ğš ğš’ğšğšğš‘/ğšœğš›ğšŒ.ğšŒğš˜ğš•ğšœ

2. `fy`: Scale factor along the vertical axis; when it equals 0, it is computed as (ğšğš˜ğšğš‹ğš•ğš)ğšğšœğš’ğš£ğš.ğš‘ğšğš’ğšğš‘ğš/ğšœğš›ğšŒ.ğš›ğš˜ğš ğšœ

The output image has the size `dsize` (when it is non-zero) or the size computed from `src.size()`, `fx`, and `fy`; the type of dst is the same as of src.

**`resize()`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.0/da/d54/group__imgproc__transform.html#ga47a974309e9102f5f08231edc7e7529d)

### Method 1: Specifying Scaling Factor using fx and fy

``` python
resized_cropped_region_2x = cv2.resize(cropped_region, None, fx=2, fy=2)
```

### Medthod 2: Specifying exact size of the output image

``` python
desired_width = 100
desired_height = 200
dim = (desired_width, desired_height)

# Resize background image to sae size as logo image
resized_cropped_region = cv2.resize(cropped_region, dsize=dim, interpolation=cv2.INTER_AREA)
```

**Note:** This manually specified width and height may result in breaking the original aspect ratio of the image.

Maintaining the original aspect ratio:

``` python
# Method 2: Using 'dsize'
desired_width = 100
aspect_ratio = desired_width / cropped_region.shape[1]
desired_height = int(cropped_region.shape[0] * aspect_ratio)
dim = (desired_width, desired_height)

# Resize image
resized_cropped_region = cv2.resize(cropped_region, dsize=dim, interpolation=cv2.INTER_AREA)
plt.imshow(resized_cropped_region)
```

## Flipping Image

The function **`flip`** flips the array in one of three different ways (row and column indices are 0-based):

``` python
dst = cv.flip( src, flipCode )
```

`dst`: output array of the same size and type as src.

The function has **2 required arguments**:

1. `src`: input image
2. `flipCode`: a flag to specify how to flip the array; 0 means flipping around the x-axis and positive value (for example, 1) means flipping around y-axis. Negative value (for example, -1) means flipping around both axes.

**`flip`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.0/d2/de8/group__core__array.html#gaca7be533e3dac7feb70fc60635adf441)
