# Image Annotation

## Drawing Lines

Let's start off by drawing a line on an image. We will use `cv2.line` function for this.

``` python
    img = cv2.line(img, pt1, pt2, color[, thickness[, lineType[, shift]]])
```

`img`: The output image that has been annotated.

The function has **4 required arguments**:

1. `img`:   Image on which we will draw a line

2. `pt1`:   First point(x,y location) of the line segment

3. `pt2`:   Second point of the line segment

4. `color`: Color of the line which will be drawn

Other optional arguments that are important for us to know include:

1. `thickness`: Integer specifying the line thickness. Default value is 1.

2. `lineType`:  Type of the line. Default value is 8 which stands for an 8-connected line. Usually, cv2.LINE_AA (antialiased or smooth line) is used for the lineType.

**`line`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d6/d6e/group__imgproc__draw.html#ga7078a9fae8c7e7d13d24dac2520ae4a2)

## Drawing Circles

Let's start off by drawing a circle on an image. We will use cv2.circle function for this.

``` python
img = cv2.circle(img, center, radius, color[, thickness[, lineType[, shift]]])
```

`img`: The output image that has been annotated.

The function has **4 required arguments**:

1. `img`:    Image on which we will draw a line

2. `center`: Center of the circle

3. `radius`: Radius of the circle

4. `color`:  Color of the circle which will be drawn

Next, let's check out the (optional) arguments which we are going to use quite extensively.

1. `thickness`: Thickness of the circle outline (if positive).
If a negative value is supplied for this argument, it will result in a filled circle.

2. `lineType`:  Type of the circle boundary. This is exact same as lineType argument in **cv2.line**

**`circle`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d6/d6e/group__imgproc__draw.html#gaf10604b069374903dbd0f0488cb43670)

## Drawing Rectangles

We will use **cv2.rectangle** function to draw a rectangle on an image. The function syntax is as follows.

``` python
    img = cv2.rectangle(img, pt1, pt2, color[, thickness[, lineType[, shift]]])
```

`img`: The output image that has been annotated.

The function has **4 required arguments**:

1. `img`: Image on which the rectangle is to be drawn.

2. `pt1`: Vertex of the rectangle. Usually we use the **top-left vertex** here.

3. `pt2`: Vertex of the rectangle opposite to pt1. Usually we use the **bottom-right** vertex here.

4. `color`: Rectangle color

Next, let's check out the (optional) arguments which we are going to use quite extensively.

1. `thickness`: Thickness of the circle outline (if positive). If a negative value is supplied for this argument, it will result in a filled rectangle.

2. `lineType`: Type of the circle boundary. This is exact same as lineType argument in **cv2.line**

**`rectangle`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d6/d6e/group__imgproc__draw.html#ga07d2f74cadcf8e305e810ce8eed13bc9)

## Adding Texts

``` python
    img = cv2.putText(img, text, org, fontFace, fontScale, color[, thickness[, lineType[, bottomLeftOrigin]]])
```

`img`: The output image that has been annotated.

The function has **6 required arguments**:

1. `img`: Image on which the text has to be written.

2. `text`: Text string to be written.

3. `org`: Bottom-left corner of the text string in the image.

4. `fontFace`: Font type

5. `fontScale`: Font scale factor that is multiplied by the font-specific base size.

6. `color`: Font color

Other optional arguments that are important for us to know include:

1. `thickness`: Integer specifying the line thickness for the text. Default value is 1.

2. `lineType`: Type of the line. Default value is 8 which stands for an 8-connected line. Usually, cv2.LINE_AA (antialiased or smooth line) is used for the lineType.

**`putText`**: [Documentation Link](https://docs.opencv.org/4.5.1/d6/d6e/group__imgproc__draw.html#ga5126f47f883d730f633d74f07456c576)
